README.md, before:

# [CoNLL23] JaSPICE: Automatic Evaluation Metric Using Predicate-Argument Structures for Image Captioning Models
[![Lint](https://github.com/keio-smilab23/JaSPICE/actions/workflows/lint.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/keio-smilab23/JaSPICE/actions/workflows/lint.yaml)
[![Test](https://github.com/keio-smilab23/JaSPICE/actions/workflows/test.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/keio-smilab23/JaSPICE/actions/workflows/test.yaml)

Evaluation code for machine-generated image captions in Japanese.

This code also implemented a scene-graph parser for Japanese.

<img width="1448" alt="system" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/51681991/210318651-1d5f85b2-8fb9-459a-9cc4-10f1eb41d815.png">


## Instructions (using Docker)

### Clone & Install

```
pip install jaspice
```

or

```
git clone git@github.com:keio-smilab23/JaSPICE.git
cd JaSPICE
pip install -e .
```

### Build

```
docker build -t jaspice .
```

Run the docker container.

```
docker run -d -p 2115:2115 jaspice
```

### Usage

```python
from jaspice.api import JaSPICE

batch_size = 16
jaspice = JaSPICE(batch_size,server_mode=True)
_, score = jaspice.compute_score(references, candidates)
```


## Instructions (without Docker)

### Clone & Install

```
git clone git@github.com:keio-smilab23/JaSPICE.git
cd JaSPICE
pip install -e .
```

### Install JUMAN, JUMAN++, KNP

- juman : v7.01
- juman++ : v1.02
- knp : v4.20

```
# JUMAN++
wget 'https://github.com/keio-smilab23/JaSPICE/releases/download/0.0.1/jumanpp.tar.xz'

# JUMAN
wget 'https://github.com/keio-smilab23/JaSPICE/releases/download/0.0.1/juman.tar.bz2'

# KNP
wget 'https://github.com/keio-smilab23/JaSPICE/releases/download/0.0.1/knp.tar.bz2'
```

## Usage

```python
from jaspice.api import JaSPICE

batch_size = 16
jaspice = JaSPICE(batch_size,server_mode=False)
_, score = jaspice.compute_score(references, candidates)
```



## Scene Graph Example

- 「人通りの少なくなった道路で青いズボンを着た男の子がオレンジ色のヘルメットを被りスケートボードに乗っている．」

<img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/51681991/222105941-e170a4e2-6acb-4a5c-931e-b5c9f2eb18be.png" width="40%"><img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/51681991/222106064-ac1575e3-bbf4-4417-9d93-290948bc8943.png" width="49%">


## BibTex

```
@inproceedings{wada2023,
   title     = {{JaSPICE: Automatic Evaluation Metric Using Predicate-Argument Structures for Image Captioning Models}},
   author    = {Wada, Yuiga  and Kaneda, Kanta  and Sugiura, Komei},
   year      = 2023,
   booktitle = {Proceedings of the 27th Conference on Computational Natural Language Learning (CoNLL)}
}
```

## Others

### Licenses

This work is licensed under the BSD-3-Clause-Clear license. To view a copy of this license, see [LICENSE](LICENSE).

- [JUMAN](https://github.com/keio-smilab23/JaSPICE/releases/download/0.0.1/JUMAN_COPYING.txt)
- [JUMANPP](https://github.com/keio-smilab23/JaSPICE/releases/download/0.0.1/JUMANPP_LICENSE.txt)
- [KNP](https://github.com/keio-smilab23/JaSPICE/releases/download/0.0.1/KNP_COPYING.txt)

Commit message:

[update] README: add a paper link

README.md, after:

# [CoNLL23] JaSPICE: Automatic Evaluation Metric Using Predicate-Argument Structures for Image Captioning Models
[![Lint](https://github.com/keio-smilab23/JaSPICE/actions/workflows/lint.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/keio-smilab23/JaSPICE/actions/workflows/lint.yaml)
[![Test](https://github.com/keio-smilab23/JaSPICE/actions/workflows/test.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/keio-smilab23/JaSPICE/actions/workflows/test.yaml)


- Accepted at CoNLL23
- [arXiv paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.04192)

*Image captioning studies heavily rely on automatic evaluation metrics such as BLEU and METEOR. However, such n-gram-based metrics have been shown to correlate poorly with human evaluation, leading to the proposal of alternative metrics such as SPICE for English; however, no equivalent metrics have been established for other languages. Therefore, in this study, we propose an automatic evaluation metric called JaSPICE, which evaluates Japanese captions based on scene graphs. The proposed method generates a scene graph from dependencies and the predicate-argument structure, and extends the graph using synonyms. We conducted experiments employing 10 image captioning models trained on STAIR Captions and PFN-PIC and constructed the Shichimi dataset, which contains 103,170 human evaluations. The results showed that our metric outperformed the baseline metrics for the correlation coefficient with the human evaluation.*



<img width="1448" alt="system" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/51681991/210318651-1d5f85b2-8fb9-459a-9cc4-10f1eb41d815.png">


## Instructions (using Docker)

### Clone & Install

```
pip install jaspice
```

or

```
git clone git@github.com:keio-smilab23/JaSPICE.git
cd JaSPICE
pip install -e .
```

### Build

```
docker build -t jaspice .
```

Run the docker container.

```
docker run -d -p 2115:2115 jaspice
```

### Usage

```python
from jaspice.api import JaSPICE

batch_size = 16
jaspice = JaSPICE(batch_size,server_mode=True)
_, score = jaspice.compute_score(references, candidates)
```


## Instructions (without Docker)

### Clone & Install

```
git clone git@github.com:keio-smilab23/JaSPICE.git
cd JaSPICE
pip install -e .
```

### Install JUMAN, JUMAN++, KNP

- juman : v7.01
- juman++ : v1.02
- knp : v4.20

```
# JUMAN++
wget 'https://github.com/keio-smilab23/JaSPICE/releases/download/0.0.1/jumanpp.tar.xz'

# JUMAN
wget 'https://github.com/keio-smilab23/JaSPICE/releases/download/0.0.1/juman.tar.bz2'

# KNP
wget 'https://github.com/keio-smilab23/JaSPICE/releases/download/0.0.1/knp.tar.bz2'
```

## Usage

```python
from jaspice.api import JaSPICE

batch_size = 16
jaspice = JaSPICE(batch_size,server_mode=False)
_, score = jaspice.compute_score(references, candidates)
```



## Scene Graph Example

- 「人通りの少なくなった道路で青いズボンを着た男の子がオレンジ色のヘルメットを被りスケートボードに乗っている．」

<img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/51681991/222105941-e170a4e2-6acb-4a5c-931e-b5c9f2eb18be.png" width="40%"><img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/51681991/222106064-ac1575e3-bbf4-4417-9d93-290948bc8943.png" width="49%">


## BibTex

```
@inproceedings{wada2023,
   title     = {{JaSPICE: Automatic Evaluation Metric Using Predicate-Argument Structures for Image Captioning Models}},
   author    = {Wada, Yuiga  and Kaneda, Kanta  and Sugiura, Komei},
   year      = 2023,
   booktitle = {Proceedings of the 27th Conference on Computational Natural Language Learning (CoNLL)}
}
```

## Others

### Licenses

This work is licensed under the BSD-3-Clause-Clear license. To view a copy of this license, see [LICENSE](LICENSE).

- [JUMAN](https://github.com/keio-smilab23/JaSPICE/releases/download/0.0.1/JUMAN_COPYING.txt)
- [JUMANPP](https://github.com/keio-smilab23/JaSPICE/releases/download/0.0.1/JUMANPP_LICENSE.txt)
- [KNP](https://github.com/keio-smilab23/JaSPICE/releases/download/0.0.1/KNP_COPYING.txt)
